For opening eye across the board,
it's really important that we kind of
like iteratively deploy technology in a
way where we're not just like dropping
bombshells on the world when there's
like some big research breakthrough. We
want to co-evolve society with the
technology. And so that's why we really
thought it was important to like do this
now and like do it in a way where, you
know, we've hit this again this kind of
like GPT-3.5 moment for video. Let's
make sure the world is kind of aware of
what's possible now. And also, you know,
start to get society comfortable in like
figuring out the rules of the road for
this kind of like longer-term vision for
where there are just copies of yourself
running around in Sora in [music] the
ether, like just doing tasks and like
reporting back in the physical world.
Because that is where we are headed
long-term.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Today on Training Data, we sit down with
the team behind OpenAI's Sora. Bill
Peebles, Thomas Dimson, and Rohan Sahai.
You'll hear about spacetime tokens,
building internal world simulators, and
how optimizing for creation instead of
consumption is just better for social
platforms. This conversation goes way
beyond video generation and into
questions about how society will
co-evolve with powerful simulation
technologies. We promise that this was
an actual real-world conversation and
not a video generation, but we don't
know how to prove that to you.
Let's jump in.
Hey guys, thank you for being here at
Sequoia.
Congratulations on Sora. Thank you. Um
maybe you could tell us a little bit
about yourselves and how you got to
OpenAI and Sora. Yeah, I'm Bill. I'm the
head of the Sora team at OpenAI. I had a
pretty traditional path, came through
undergrad doing research on video
generation, then continued that work at
Berkeley,
and then started at OpenAI working on
Sora from, you know, the first day I
joined. And I'm Thomas. I work as an
engineering lead inside of Sora. Um I
have a bit of a longer story, but I uh
I was worked at Instagram for about
seven years doing some of the early kind
of machine learning systems and
recommender systems there, but it was a
very tiny company. It was about 40
people. Then I quit, did my own startup
for a while, which was Minecraft in the
browser,
um which we've talked about a couple
times. And uh I think that OpenAI
noticed that we had a very cracked
product team there, and so they acquired
our company. And I've been bouncing
around different products inside of
OpenAI and on the research side as well
on post training. Um but super happy we
landed kind of together on Sora to bring
this thing to life.
>> It was a really cool product in between,
too. Like the global illumination
product.
>> Oh, yeah, I still believe in it. Yeah,
me, too. Awesome, I'm Rohan. I've been
at OpenAI for about 2 and 1/2 years.
Started as an IC on ChatGPT,
um but then as soon as I saw the video
gen research, I got quickly Sora-pilled
and made my way over there. Uh and so
currently lead the Sora product team.
Before that, just
startups, big companies within kind of
the Valley, bunch of random stuff. Yeah.
Cool. Well, Bill, you are the inventor
of the diffusion transformer. Can you
tell us what that is? Yeah, um so most
people are pretty familiar with
autoregressive transformers, which is
the core tech that powers a lot of
language models that are out there. So
there you generate tokens one at a time,
and you condition on all the previous
ones to generate the future. Diffusion
transformers are a little bit different.
So instead of using autoregressive
modeling as kind of the core objective,
you're using this technique called
diffusion, which at a very high level
basically involves taking some signal,
for example video, adding a ton of noise
to it, and then training neural networks
to predict the noise that you applied.
>> Mhm. And this is kind of a different
kind of iterative generative modeling.
So instead of generating token by token
as you do in autoregressive models,
diffusion models generate by gradually
removing noise one step at a time.
And in Sora 1, we really kind of
popularized this technique for video
generation models. So if you look at all
of the other competitor models that are
out there both in the States and in
China, most of them are based on DiTs,
diffusion transformers. And a big part
of that is because DiTs are a really
powerful inductive bias for video. So
because you're generating the whole
video simultaneously, you really solve
issues where quality can like degrade or
change over time, which was kind of like
a big problem for prior video generation
systems, which DiTs ended up fixing. So
that's kind of why you're seeing them
proliferate within video generation
stacks.
When I try to visualize it, I mean for
each diffusion you have a matrix of
pixels, and then you do the entire video
at the same time, which you can
basically see as different frames, I
imagine. Can you visualize that as, you
know, matrix of matrices that basically
transforms over time? Yeah, it's a good
question. So we really kind of consider
things at the granularity of like
spacetime tokens, which is sort of like
an insane phrase.
But, you know, whereas, you know, for
example characters are very fundamental
building block for language, for vision,
it's really this notion of a spacetime
patch, right? You can just imagine this
little cuboid that composes both X and
Y, like spatial dimensions as well as a
temporal locale. And that really is kind
of like the minimal building block that
you can like build visual generative
models out of. And so diffusion
transformers sort of consider these
almost you can think of it like voxel by
voxel.
Um and, you know, in the traditional
versions of these these diffusion
transformer models,
um you have all of these little
spacetime patches talking with all of
the other ones, and that's how you
actually are able to get properties like
object permanence to fall out because uh
basically you have full global context
of everything going on in the video at
every position in spacetime, which is
like a very powerful uh property for a
neural network to have. Mhm. Yeah. And
is that the equivalent of the attention
mechanism is the object's movement
throughout the video?
>> Yeah, that's right. So in our like Sora
1 blog post on video generation models
as world simulators, we kind of laid out
some visuals uh which sort of go into
exactly your point here, which is really
attention is like a very powerful
mechanism, right, for sharing
communication, like sharing information
across spacetime. And if you represent
data in this way, right, where you
patchify it into a bunch of these
spacetime tokens, um as long as you're,
you know, properly using the attention
mechanism, that allows you to transfer
information throughout the entire video
all at once. Mhm. What are the biggest
differences between Sora 1 and 2? And I
remember with the original Sora 1, you
were already seeing kind of emergent
properties where the more you scale, uh
the more it's able to do things like
understand physics. What is is Sora 2
purely a function of scaling or what are
the biggest differences?
>> Yeah, it's a great question. Um you
know, we've spent a long time really
just doing like core generative modeling
research uh since the Sora 1 launch to
really figure how figure out how we get
the next step function improvement in
video generation capabilities. Um we
really kind of operated from first
principles, right? So we really want
these models to be extremely good at
physics. We want them to kind of feel
intelligent in a way that I feel like
most prior video generation models
don't. So by that I really mean, you
know, if you look at kind of any of the
previous set of models that were out
there, you'll notice a lot of this kind
of like effects that happen. Like if you
try to do any sort of complicated
sequence of like physical interactions,
right? For example, like spiking
gymnastics classic.
>> Classic.
Riding a dragon like you did.
>> Riding a dragon, that was fun. That was
that happened for real, actually,
Konstantin. Oh my god, talk about that.
Um uh
you know,
there are like very clear problems with
the past generation of models that that
we really like set out to solve with
Sora 2. And I think one thing that's
really cool about this model compared to
prior ones is that um when the model
makes a mistake, it actually fails in a
very unique way that we haven't seen
before. And so concretely, uh for
example, if uh let's say like the text
input to Sora is a basketball star wants
to like shoot a hoop, right?
>> Shoot a free throw.
If he misses in the model, Sora will not
just like magically guide the basketball
to go into the hoop, right? To be
over-optimistic about respecting what
the user asked for. It will actually
defer to the laws of physics most of the
time, and the basketball will actually
like rebound off the backboard. And so
this is a very interesting distinction,
right, between like model failure and
like agent failure. Agent as in the
agent that Sora is like implicitly
simulating as it's generating video. Um
and we haven't really seen this very
unique kind of like semantic failure
case in like prior video models. This is
really new with Sora 2. Um it's kind of
a result of, you know, just the
investment we put in like really uh
doing like the core generative modeling
research to like get this massive
improvement in capability.
Mhm. Okay, so not purely a function of
scale. You're actually, you know,
there's there's some concept of agents
implicit in this. There's There's things
you're doing beyond just scaling the
model. Well, the the notion of agents
I'd say is actually mostly like implicit
from from scale. Um like, you know, in
the same way where uh we kind of showed
that object permanence, right, begins to
emerge in Sora 1 pretraining when it
hits some like critical flops threshold,
uh we see similar kinds of things happen
as we like push the next frontier,
right? So you begin to see these agents
act more intelligently. You begin to see
the laws of physics be respected in a
way that they aren't at like lower
compute skills. How does the concept of
a spacetime latent patch relate to a
spacetime token relate to object
permanence and how things move through
the physical world? Yeah, it's a great
question. So I'd say spacetime patch and
spacetime token are more or less
synonymous with one another. Um I'll use
them interchangeably.
You know, what's really beautiful,
right, is uh
when people started scaling up language
models um from like GPT-1 to GPT-2 to
GPT-3,
we really began to see the emergence of
like world models internally in these
systems. And what's kind of beautiful
about this, right, is there's incredibly
simple tokenizers that actually go into
like creating the data that we train
these systems on.
But despite this very simple
representation, right, you know, um like
BPE characters, what have you,
uh when you put enough compute and data
into these systems, like in order to
actually solve this task of predicting
the next token, you need to develop an
internal representation of how the world
functions, right? You need to like
simulate things. Uh and like, you know,
the models will make lots of mistakes
right now at like low compute skills,
but as you continue pushing it from
three to four to five, you just see
these internal world models get more and
more robust. And it's really analogous
for video, right? And in many ways more
explicit. So I think it's easier to
picture what like a world model or a
world simulator looks like with video
data, right? because it is literally
representing like the raw observational
bits of like all of reality.
But, what's really remarkable, right, is
because these space-time patches are
just this like very simple and like
highly reusable representation that can
apply to like any type of data, right?
Whether it's just like video footage of
like this set, whether it's like anime,
cartoons, like whatever it is. Um you're
just able to build like one neural
network that can operate on this vast,
extremely diverse set of data and really
build these like incredibly powerful
representations that model like very
generalizable properties of the world,
right? It's useful to have a world
simulator to predict like how a cartoon
will unfold and likewise it's useful for
predicting how, you know, this
conversation might unfold. And so, that
really puts a lot of optimization
pressure on Sora to like grok these like
core fundamental concepts in a very like
data-efficient way.
Did you have to put effort into
selecting the data such that it
reflected the physical world? For
example, I'd imagine if you have data
from the physical world, it all abides
the laws of physics. But, you mentioned
anime.
That might not always abide in the laws
of physics. Did you have to be selective
or did it naturally find patterns that
separated that out?
>> That's a really great question. Um we
did spend a lot of time, you know,
really thinking about
you know, what does like the optimal
data mix for like a world simulator kind
of look like? And to your point, you
know, I think
in some cases we'll make decisions that,
you know, maybe are for like making the
model really fun. Like for example,
people love generating anime. But, you
know, do not necessarily like perfectly
represents uh like the laws of physics
that are like directly useful for like
real-world applications. So, like to put
it another way, right? I think in anime,
there are certain primitives that are
simplified that are actually probably
useful for understanding the real world.
You know, people still locomote through
scenes, for example. But, like if
there's like some crazy dragon that's
like flying around, that's probably like
not so useful for like grokking
aerodynamics or something. Dragon Ball Z
is more or less how I learned athletics.
You know, there you go. Motion and Super
Saiyan.
>> there it is an interesting question like
that I do not know the answer to,
whether somehow like pre-training on
simplified representations of like the
visual world, whether that's like
sketches or like some other modality,
like, you know, makes you more efficient
at like grokking these concepts. I think
it's actually a very interesting
scientific question that we we need to
understand better.
Do you think we're close to exhausting
the number of pre-training tokens there
are out there or do you think video data
is just video is just so massive and
it's actually one of the more untapped
uh vats of data? Yeah, I The way I kind
of think about this is the intelligence
per bit of video is much lower than
something like text data. But, if you
integrate over all of the data that
really exists out there, uh the total is
much higher. So, to directly answer your
question, you know, I think
it's hard to imagine ever fully running
out of video data. There's just like so
many
ways that it exists in the world. Um
That like, you know, you will be in a
regime where you can continue to just
like add more and more data to these
pre-training runs and continue to see
gains for like a very long time, I
suspect.
Do you think we'll ever discover new
physics? There's the LLM world or, you
know, Einstein thinking the whiteboard
is equivalent to these LLMs thinking.
There's also just the if you develop a
perfect simulator and you just simulate
physics better and better, you you might
learn things about the world that we
haven't learned yet.
>> I totally think that this is like bound
to happen one day. And like, you know, I
think we probably need
even like we probably need one more step
function change, I'd say, in like model
quality to like really get to a point
where, for example, you can think about
doing like scientific experiments in the
models. But, like you could imagine,
right, one day you have a world
simulator that is like generalized so
well to the laws of physics that like
you don't even need like a wet lab in
the real world anymore, right? You can
just like run biological experiments
within Sora itself. And like again, this
needs like a lot of work to like really
get to a point where like you have a
system that's robust enough to do this
reliably. Um but, you know, internally
like again, we've used Sora 1 as kind of
being like the GPT-1 moment for video.
It was like really the first time things
started working for that modality. Sora
2 we really view as like GPT-3.5 uh in
terms of like it really being able to
like kickstart um, you know, the world's
creative juices and like really
like break through this kind of
usability barrier where we're seeing
like mass adoption of these models. And
we're going to need a GPT-4 breakthrough
to really get this to the point where
this is useful for like sciences as
we're seeing now with GPT-5, right? Like
I feel like every day on Twitter I see
another like convex optimization lower
bounds get like improved by GPT-5 Pro.
Um and I think eventually we're going to
see the same thing happening for the
sciences with Sora.
Do you think you need physical world
embodiment to get there or do you think
a lot of it can be done in
effectively in sim? You know,
I am like I'm always amazed
at, you know, every time we like push
another like 10x compute into these
models, like what just like magically
falls out of it um with like very
limited changes in kind of like what
we're training on and like the
fundamental like approach to to what
we're doing.
Um
you know, I suspect some amount of like
physical agency will certainly help. I
I've have a hard time believing it will
like make you worse at like, you know,
modeling like collisions or like
something else. Um
Video only is like quite remarkable,
though, and I wouldn't be surprised if
it's actually kind of like AGI complete
for like building like a general-purpose
world simulator.
So, for this concept of a
general-purpose world simulator, a world
model,
>> Yeah. where you can do
science experiments in that world. Do
you think that video is the sole or some
combination of video and text are the
combined data inputs and you train it on
this type of
uh this type of model or is it going to
be Does it have to be based on more
structured laws of physics that are
understood and laws of biology that are
understood? I think it probably depends
a lot on um the specific use case you're
kind of envisioning for for the world
simulator. Like,
for example, if you just really want to
build like an accurate model of how like
a basketball game is played, I actually
think like only video data and like
maybe audio as well are like kind of
sufficient to to build that system.
>> Not of me playing basketball. That would
be an inaccurate, very bad [laughter]
player of basketball. You know,
you actually like Sora's current
understanding of how people play
basketball, Constantine, may be at your
level. Wow, okay, that makes sense. That
It's possible. It's possible.
Uh I like you just dissed you. I I like
>> [laughter]
>> it's accurate. It's better than mine,
Constantine. For what it's worth, that
was like a Sora 1 situation. We'll We'll
We'll We'll We'll We'll
>> We'll toss some hoops. Is that what
they'll say? Like I'm down. Okay. I'm
down. Yeah. He shoots some hoops.
Thanks. He shoots some hoops. Yeah.
Thomas is first. [laughter] First
statement in the podcast.
Um you know, I think it is an
interesting question like what are all
of the modalities that should be present
in like this kind of general-purpose sim
system. Like certainly, you know, if you
add more modalities, I have a hard time
believing it would like decrease the
intelligence. I also think there's an
argument to be made that um just,
you know, adding more and more does not
provide like significant marginal value
compared to like, you know, full mastery
of like video and audio, for example. I
think it's an interesting open question.
I'm not I'm not actually sure right now.
Um and it's something we need to
understand more.
Yeah, so cool. Sonia a minute ago
mentioned Einstein at the whiteboard.
And obviously that makes me think of
you, Thomas, and your hair.
Uh Me, too.
Uh it had it had to come. Like if if any
hair gives the feeling of space-time
tokens, it's it's [laughter] definitely
definitely yours. At some point, you
know, Bill, you are the creator of this
revolutionary technology that has
changed the way that
AI video is created. At some point, you
from Sora 1 to Sora 2 said, "Hey, all
together." You said, "There needs to be
an application around this. There's some
benefit to an application." You brought
together some of the best product people
in the world. How did that crew come
together at OpenAI? Yeah, it's a I mean,
the the story is never as linear as you
might think it is. Um so, I think that I
mean, we've had a product team on Sora
since the get-go. Rohan was like uh
spearheading that effort in the Sora 1
days. But, I think Bill's right when he
says it was really like a GPT-1 kind of
moment. We're seeing pockets of very
interesting things there. Um but, the
models were not like, you know, models
without sound, videos without sound is
like a very different kind of
environment. And so, um we're working on
that surface mostly targeted on on kind
of like a prosumer uh demographic. And
separately, I mean, Rohan can probably
go into more details of all that. Um
separately, we're also just kind of
exploring different social applications
of AI uh inside of OpenAI and like what
that could look like. We had a lot of
prototypes, most of which were quite
bad. Um
and when we started to see some of the
magic was actually with ImageGen
um before it had been released. Uh we
were playing with it internally in a
social context. And the social context
was really interesting to see that what
people were doing is you'd sort of like
take an image and then you'd have like a
chain of remixes of that image. Where
like I don't know, there was a
it's a duck and then now the duck's on
somebody's head and now everything's
upside down and they're smoking a
cigarette. Like uh just a lot of weird
things that kind of happen. Yeah, it's
like [laughter]
and um we were seeing this where we're
like, "Oh, this is kind of like a very
interesting thing that like, you know,
nobody can really do that with like
social media cuz it's so hard to create
something or riff on something. It like
is a such a high barrier to entry
action.
Um maybe you have to get a go get a
camera set up and
not It's not just like thinking of the
idea. There's actually a lot of things
involved. And so,
we were like, "Okay, this is a very
magical behavior. How can we kind of
productize that behavior?" Um and we're
mostly thinking about it away from Sora.
Um some of the Sora research was still
ongoing and I mean, there were signs of
life, but it wasn't like quite there yet
in productized form. Bill probably had
it in his head somewhere. It's like I
can see the future, but that's fine.
Uh I'm a little bit more can't can't
quite see the future yet. [laughter] So,
Uh so, we were just exploring that. I
think we we tried a few things and then
at some point the the research was
really
uh just showing very clear value
of even iterative deployment-style value
of like, "Oh, this is something that
people will really want." And so, we
went into this project like
two or three months ago, is it? It
wasn't very long.
>> like July 4th. July 4th week. Yeah. Um
we're
>> you disappeared, Thomas.
>> That's when I disappeared, yeah.
Exactly. Yeah, so
>> [laughter]
>> um and we just kind of locked in like,
"Okay, we're finally doing it." You
know, that's It's a moment. Um
and uh we started with without any
magical features. Just like, okay, let's
just try to get
native video environment where you can
hear the audio full screen.
Um, and we did some quick generations.
Things were showing very They're very
cool, very fun, very interesting.
Um,
and
because of that image and experience, we
sort of had thought of like, okay,
what's the magical here magical thing
here is that like barrier to entry is
very very low for creation.
Um, coming from Instagram, it's
impossible to get people to create on
Instagram and that's the most valuable
thing that people do.
Um,
so what does that unlock? And it's like,
okay, well that remix thing from Image
Gen, that kind of could still apply
here. And so we brainstormed all these
things about how could remixes work and
like what does a remix mean here? Um,
one of those was this like cameo thing
which I think also Bill had in his head
but this you know was in a It's It's in
the ether. It was in the ether for sure.
Um, but we just were like hacking
together things on the product. We were
just like, let's see if this works. Um,
I I didn't think it would work at all.
Um,
but it was on the list and there were a
few other things on the list. Some of
them were pretty crazy. It was like a
Why didn't you think it would work?
I am bad at predicting technology.
[laughter]
That like
uh, it wasn't super clear to me that you
could like, you know, take a likeness of
a of a person and have that a kind of
imagined into a video form.
Um,
and whether it would work or not. And so
we had early prototypes of different
things of like people reacting in the in
the video corner or uh, stuff like that.
But when when we saw cameos just start
to work and even playing internally like
Rohan, do you remember that day where
we're like Yeah.
Feed is entirely cameo.
>> Yeah, it's entirely It just went from
you know, we didn't have that feature.
Once we had that feature, product market
fit on the team, all everything we were
generating was all of each other.
You must have seen the
I mean, yeah, that's I think at first
we were just like, this is hilarious,
this is amazing. And then like a week
later we were like, this is still all we
do. Um, so there's something here.
>> Yeah. I mean, at first we were actually
a little bit like, is this good? Like,
hey, the cameos are it's just all cameos
now. Does anyone else care about this?
>> people care about other people doing
stuff? And um,
we kind of got to the point where we're
like, no, no, this is actually good.
Like it's actually it feels like I'm
coming back to see and it really
humanized it a lot where like a lot of
AI video is just um, kind of static
scenes that are quite beautiful, quite
interesting, might have extremely
complicated uh, things going on. But
they lose that human touch and it really
felt like it was coming back into it.
So. Another learning from Image Gen,
too. Like Image Gen took off and had
viral moments because I think you could
put yourselves in these scenes in
accessible ways that weren't possible
before. Obviously this massive like put
me in a Ghibli scene.
Um, people taking selfies with their
idols and stuff like that. And so
the once you once you actually kind of
thought about it, it's like, yeah, cameo
feature makes a lot of sense. You put
yourself in all these scenes, that's way
more exciting you and your friends. It's
novel. It's like not something you could
do before. Yeah. And then that combined
with remixes, I mean cameo is kind of
remix to begin with but then you start
to think about, okay, well now I can
riff on Rohan doing something or
whatever it is. Like with Bill and you
wrapped in an action figure package and
it was That's been remixed like an
insane number of times. Thousands of
times. Yeah, it's so like
uh, just very very crazy things that
kind of go on and very emergent. Uh, a
lot of stuff that I would have never
thought of. Actually, how many
generations of you guys have been like
publicly posted at this point?
>> I've no idea. Uh, I know I'm a 11,000 or
so.
>> I was like a little less than that. Wow.
>> Yeah. That's crazy. What has surprised
you about the types of users that are
really sticking with Sora? Who is it
really a hit with?
If you just go to the latest feed, which
is just like the firehose
of everything. Yeah, it's
>> [laughter]
>> It's spacetime Thomas mode.
Um, it's wild out there. But that gives
you a pretty good snapshot into like
just everything happening. I mean, I
think we have
like almost 7 million generations
happening a day. So you can imagine
there's just a ton of information there.
It's one of my favorite ways to just get
product feedback. It is so diverse, the
type of stuff people are doing, the type
of people. There'll be like a complete
variety of age. Some people just doing
envisioning themselves in scenes that
seem like motivation oriented. People
just memeing with their friends. People
cameo-ing some of like the public
figures on the platform that have have
done cameos. So I think the the
diversity has has surprised me. Well, I
was kind of expecting this sort of like
you know, the Twitter AI crowd to like
heavily dominate the feed. They
definitely dominate like the press
cycles, uh, at least the ones that you
know, we're most exposed to. But in
terms of people actually using this,
it's it's quite a wide variety. And um,
last thing I'll say is a bigger
departure from like the sort of niche AI
film crowd that exists before, which is
great early adopters. But now you kind
of get these I I thought it would start
there but it felt like it started with
just a way wider range of people. Um, I
think getting to the top of the app
store helps with that and just get
people who are like browsing and see
this thing. My mother keeps cameo-ing
Thomas. Is that right?
>> [laughter]
>> So weird.
I got a lot of strange cameos.
You said 11,000.
>> [laughter]
>> She's done 10,000 of them.
Uh, Thomas, you wrote the original
algorithm, if I'm right, for for the
Instagram
ranking ranking algo. Uh, there was a
lot in the Sora 2 blog post about how
you guys are clearly being very
intentional about how you want to do
ranking in the algo. Can you can can you
talk a little bit about lessons learned
from Instagram and how you're
approaching it over at Sora? Yeah. Uh, I
mean, there's a there's a lot to cover
in that. Um,
I think that the first thing to think
about when we think about these
platforms or think about Sora
specifically is it is the thing thing I
was mentioning before about creation.
Um, so uh, Sora enables basically
everybody to be a creator on this
platform and that is a very very
different environment than something
like Instagram where you have this like
extreme power law of people that are
creating. Um, and the power power law
just naturally gets more
uh,
narrow? What's the right word there? Uh,
but more uh, head heavy, yes.
Um,
so sometimes I feel like I have to
defend myself on the Instagram algorithm
side. We actually did it for I mean, we
did it for a reason. It was to solve a
problem. It wasn't just kind of like a
random decision to, you know, optimize
for ads or something like that. Um, and
the the reason we did that was that we
noticed that like what was happening on
Instagram over time was um, because it
was chronologically ordered, every
single person that posted was guaranteed
to have the top slot of all their
followers. And so if you think about
that for a second, the incentive for
somebody in that environment is actually
to create constantly because they are
guaranteed distribution when they
create. Um, and over time because of
this like power law becoming heavier and
heavier,
um,
or like more head heavy, um,
those type of people, which are great,
they provide a lot of value to the
ecosystem, uh, but they start to crowd
out people that you really care about.
And so,
um, maybe you follow National Geographic
or something, not to dunk on National
Geographic, I love them but um,
you know, if they're posting 20 times a
day, your friend's not. They don't have
the same
uh, like optimization objective. They're
probably just
a picture of their coffee or something.
Um, and so you'd have 20 Nat Geo posts
and then one picture that you actually
really cared about that you never really
scrolled to.
Um, and there's not too many solutions
to that problem if you have a guaranteed
ordering. Um, one of them is that you
have to unfollow all these accounts that
you maybe care about but care about not
as much as the person that posts once a
day. Um,
and the other is that you have to
permute the
uh, permute the feed. And so we went
with that path. We tried it. We tested
it out internally. It was very kind of
controversial to do.
Um,
and but I I think that you can actually
kind of like math this out. It's like a
proof that basically over time you're
going to have to take control over
distribution on the platform in order to
prevent these kind of issues and show
people what they actually care about. So
that's why we did it. Um, and it it
actually showed a lot of value. I
remember the early tests. I won't get
into the numbers on them but they were
pretty unambiguous actually about this
was showing more people that you cared
about. It was improving your experience
with the platform. It actually moved
creation, which is unusual. It made
people create more because they were
seeing more content that was like
accessible to them.
Um,
but I also think that these things can
go astray over time and I won't say like
the Instagram algorithm is unequivocally
bad or unequivocally good.
Um, but when we started to open up to
more unconnected content and
uh, ad pressure was very strong. There's
a also a natural company incentive to
optimize for just blind consumption cuz
that's how you make money. Um, so
uh, maybe cheaper content or maybe just
like get people to scroll more and more
and more and more.
Uh, and that also can encourage people
to create less because it's just like a
more mindless scrolling mode. Um, but
you guys have very concretely committed
to doing things to prevent that kind of
behavior
>> We have, yeah. Um, we have we have a a
lot of mitigations there in place but I
I think uh,
what it really comes down to me is just
like, what are we trying to do as a
platform? And I think the magic of this
technology is that everybody is a
creator. And so we want this feed to be
optimized for you to create. Uh, to
inspire you to create. And that can be
like
sometimes when you think of inspiration,
you think of like, oh, it's this
beautiful crazy scene that's so elegant.
Uh, when I think about that, I I think
about like a meme culture or something
really funny or like, oh, that's cool.
I've got to riff on that. And I think
that's a very different brain mode
when you're browsing the feed. Um, and
of course we have lots of other things
in place. So like I think it starts with
the incentives. That's our incentive
right here is to encourage more creation
in the ecosystem.
Um, but there are certainly use cases we
want to prevent. We're not going to get
them right all the time. Um, it's very
challenging. It's a very living system.
It's also very hard to write a
recommender system when you have no data
and you don't know what to recommend.
You don't know how the platform's going
to evolve. Um, but that's like basically
how I kind of think about the incentives
of feed. And then
we have a lot of mitigations in place
that I think you've been kind of like
thinking about and maybe even more
deeply than I have
about like
preventing maybe the the extreme cases.
And so I don't know if you you want to
talk a little bit
>> Yeah, happy to. But one thing before you
I mean just one thing to add is that the
stated intent of like optimizing for
creation is working really well.
>> Yep. It's almost 100% of people who like
get past the invite code and all that on
the app end up creating on day one.
When they come back, it's like 70% of
time they come back they're creating.
And 30% of people are actually even
posting to the feed. So not just like
generating for themselves, they're
actually like posting into the
ecosystem, which is incredible testament
to the model, how fun it is, and to like
how what we're optimizing for is
actually working pretty pretty well
right now. Um, but yeah, beyond that I
mean like one of the top of mind things
is I think we don't want this just to be
like a a mindless scroll. And beyond
just optimizing for creation in the
ranking algorithm, there are things we
can do like trying to just get you out
flow state um
of just like consumption and push you
into like creative mode. I think there's
a great article on this called like the
curvilinear nature of casinos where they
design it so you never have to make any
decisions. It's just like you walk in a
circle, there's no windows, all that
kind of stuff. Um, we can be very
intentional about not doing that. And
like, you know, whether it's an in-feed
unit that's like hey, you just kind of
viewed a couple videos in this domain,
why don't you try creating something?
Um, or other ways just kind of like push
you out of that. We we actually have
things like that in the product. Um,
yeah, those are some of the things that
come to mind. Yeah.
>> I really commend you guys for what
you've done to, you know, make sure that
there there's a version of the world
where
video model as world simulator could
have just ended up with us, you know,
each retreating into our own computer
screens and just becoming addicted and
just retreating into ourselves. And I
think the amount to which you're, you
know, prioritizing the the human
elements and the social elements, I
think that the care you've put into that
really shows. I don't think we would
have launched like a feed of just like
AI content that wasn't that didn't have
a human feel. Like just I don't think
that excited us. And as soon as we we
like had the product, we had cameo, and
we had that feeling internally. Um, we
were like, okay, this is actually a
little different than I don't know. I
don't know if it was totally obvious.
Again, it was like a pretty crazy sprint
to go through this. Uh,
it wasn't like super obvious to us what
what would emerge, but I think that the
idea it makes sense in retrospect, but
it was
>> a completely not obvious product
decision that cameos would be the thing.
>> Yeah. Um,
where it's like, of course you just want
to see your friends doing cool things.
So it's like that makes sense. Um,
but I I was never actually that afraid
of competitive pressure in that that
crazy product phase cuz I was like we
sort of had these all these non-trivial
decisions that are obvious in retrospect
but were not obvious at the time that we
were sort of building on top of each
other. It's like, okay, cameos. Well,
there's also a version of cameo where
you have a crazy flow that's just for
you and it's a one-player mode cameo and
you like go through this onboarding flow
and you do your stuff.
But we were already seeing these
interesting dynamics where it's like,
well, I could take Rohan into my video.
That's crazy. Like and then we can have
like an argument or like we can have a
anime fight, doesn't matter. Um, and I
was like, okay, so that's that's
actually the human element. That's the
that's the magic of this. This actually
strangely more social than a lot of
social networks even though it's all
AI-generated content. It's a very
unintuitive. Totally.
Is it a separate Is it fine-tuned
version of Sora 2 or is it like is it a
separate model from what's available
over the API or is it the same? Between
the app and
>> Yeah. products, so we're currently
exposing like the models in the same
state across API and and the app. Okay,
really interesting. Um, what are you
seeing people do on the API side? Uh,
and is it different from the types of
things people are doing on the on the
consumer app? The motivation behind even
launching an API is just like support of
these long-tail use cases. Like we have
this vision of enabling, you know,
um, chat GPT-scale level consumer
audience with this tech, but there's
tons of very niche things out there. You
can imagine people who are much, you
know, with Sora 1 we went out and talked
to a lot of these studios. What we heard
from them is like they want to integrate
this in this specific part of their
stack in this specific way. And we'd
love to support all these long-tail use
cases, but we don't want to build a
thousand different kind of interfaces
for this stuff. So that's the kind of
stuff we're excited to see with the API.
So far it's been, you know, it's been
kind those kind of like a little bit
more of a niche company not trying to
build like a first-party social app, but
maybe
um, you know, has some either filmmaking
kind of audience or kind of people
they're supporting or even just like
we've definitely we've seen some like
people trying to you know, I think there
was like a some company making um
they were doing something with CAD where
they were like using Sora. Yeah, yeah,
yeah.
Um, so there's there's there's cool use
cases out there. I think we're still
getting a sense of what they are.
>> Yeah, I think there's a lot that can be
done with these things. I think about
gaming all the time just based on my
background. I'm you know, AI in gaming
is always a very controversial subject,
but it's very clear that there's a
there's a place and there's a role. Um,
maybe it doesn't
have to interrupt the creative process.
It can enhance it. And I'm pretty
excited to see some of those use cases
emerge. Do you think the video models
are good enough now to for people to be
able to build video games on top of the
API or do you think we're still another
rev or two away?
I have my own take on this.
>> going to say never bet against the ways
people can be creative with technology
to build. Like someone will be able to
build a game and maybe has built a game
already. What will it feel look and feel
like a you know, obviously there's
latency with this model. So you'd have
to do all sorts of crazy stuff to get
around that, but Like I think that your
mind immediately goes to the kind of the
obvious sort of things that you would do
in gaming and we've seen some of that
sort of stuff certainly in research
blogs and like that kind of thing.
My mind often goes to like, okay, this
is like a creative tool that's available
but different. Um, and the types of
games that really excite me there,
I'll just go off on one, which is this
like there's a game called Infinite
Craft, which is the world's simplest
game. It's a web game where you just
take elements. It's like fire, uh,
water, earth. You have like four
elements to start. And you just drag
them and it I love this game.
>> It it combines into something new. And
the thing it combines with is like a
it's LLM-based. So it's like fire and
and and earth might be a volcano.
Um, and then volcano plus water might be
an underwater volcano or Godzilla or
something like that. You always end up
in Godzilla for some reason. I don't
know why.
Um, but
Uh, that's a game that like it's like,
oh, it it kind of makes sense where it's
like, yeah, you don't really need a
crafting tree. The LLM can derive this
crafting tree and it's a process of
discovery.
Um, and so I think there's a lot of
untapped stuff in that space where
again, I like the idea of a process
discovery. In fact,
my full sockle philosophical view on
LLMs and video models to some extent is
that it is a process of discovery. These
are all in the weights. You're just
unlocking it with like a secret code,
which is your prompt.
Um, and I I love that. That is that is
very magical. That was always in gaming
that was the thing that like excited me
the most was discovering something new,
especially if it was a true discovery.
It wasn't put there by somebody else.
Maybe they just enabled the mechanics
around it. So I think there's a huge
opportunity in that space of
of gaming. When you think about games in
just a different thing and like embrace
this technology in a very different way.
It reminds me of how
some of the earliest use cases for GPT-3
were the kind of these text games.
>> Yep. Um, so it's different than from how
you think of a, you know, video like a
playable video game, but actually a lot
of these mechanics are very game-like.
>> Exactly. Yeah. I think there's a there's
still constraints and I think that's
going to be like the mechanism design
and that's still very human. Um, like a
lot of the early games with GPT-3 they
kind of like, yeah, it was fun for a
minute and then it kind of went off the
rails and you're like, I don't really
know what I'm doing anymore.
>> [laughter]
>> Um, but it again, like this is Sora of
in some ways so Sora feels like a little
bit of that where it's got a little bit
of gaming
DNA inside of it where it feels very fun
and different and exploratory. So I I
like things like that. And I think
there's going to be more use cases that
we can't even think of. It's too
creative. What are you guys seeing on
the creative filmmaking side? Like is
that an important target market? Do you
want to Do you want to empower the long
tail or do you want to empower the the
head, so to speak, of the creative
market? That's a really good question.
You know,
we've benefited a lot from
creatives who are really willing to like
go all in on, you know, even like the
early technology like DALL-E 1, DALL-E
2, and really like help steer us along
the path. And like I think it's
important that we continue to, you know,
build things for for those folks. And we
are working on some things that are like
more targeted towards like creative
power users long-term. At the same time,
you know, I do think like AI is a very
democratizing tool right at its best.
And so
what's kind of beautiful about the Sora
platform in general, right, is whenever
someone kind of strikes gold, right, you
see one of these like beautiful anime
prompts that like goes to like the very
top of the feed for everyone. Um, like
anybody can go and remix that, right?
Everyone has the power to like build on
top of that and like learn from all of
these people who come in with this like
incredible knowledge about how to like
really get the most out of these tools.
And so I am really excited just to see
the net creativity of humanity just
increase as a result of this.
But I think a big part of that, right,
is continuing to empower people who are
always at the frontier, which are these
like more pro-oriented like creator
type folks. And so we want to keep
investing in them as well. We've nerded
out for a while, like almost a couple
years now, about that vision of feature
film length content.
>> Like yes, you have these amazing cameos
and shorter content, but at some point
the individual creator This has been
something that you've been excited about
for a very long time.
>> Yeah. When do we get there? You know, is
there a point where we have a feature
film that is created on Sora 2?
And how do we consume it? Is it in the
Sora app? Is it posted somewhere else
online? Do you go to a movie theater and
watch it? Yeah, it's a great question. I
mean, I think this will happen in stages
to some extent. So like if you guys
watch the right the launch video, I
mean, that was made by like Daniel
Freiden who's on the Sora team. And he
already with these tools, right? Is able
to pump out these like incredibly
compelling short stories
within like days at most. I mean, he
literally made that like all by himself
in almost no time and he's been like
continuing to like put new ones out
there on like the Open AI Twitter since.
Um so clearly this is like massively
compressing the latency
that's associated with like filmmaking.
Um
I think to get to the point where like
really anybody can do this, right? Like
any kid in their home can just like fire
up the app or sora.com or something and
go and make this. You know, it's really
like a an economics problem of like the
video models video is the most intensive
compute intensive modality to work with.
It's extremely expensive. And you know,
we're making good progress on the
research team like really continuing to
figure out ways to make this affordable
for everyone long term. Like right now
for example, you know, the Sora app is
like totally free.
Um in the future there will probably be
ways where people can pay money to get
more access to the models um just
because that's the only way we can
really scale this further. Um but
you know, I think we are not far off
from this world where anybody can really
like have the tools to make amazing
content. You know, I think there's going
to be like a lot of bad movies that get
created by this, but like likewise, you
know, there's probably the next great
film director who is just kind of like
sitting uh you know, in their parents'
house like still in high school or
something and just like has not had the
investment or the tools to be able to
like really see their vision come to
life and we're going to find like
absolutely like amazing things from like
giving this technology to like the whole
world. I'm looking forward to the
feature film length Constantine's Greek
Odyssey.
>> Yeah.
Coming to theaters near you. Yeah. Yeah.
We're all [laughter] in it together
actually different characters. I play
the Cyclops.
It's a it's a good one. I think just to
touch on that what one more thing that
something I've learned from recommender
systems over and over again is it like
often times so the tools getting more
people more creative is going to be a
huge unlock for
just
you know, making people more more
creative in general and because you
don't need this access to this like
filmmaking equipment and all that sort
of stuff.
Um but we do consistently see that
things content is like a also a social
phenomenon in a way and like
movies and all that all all all
everything you see out there is kind of
a bit of a social phenomenon in addition
to the actual content itself. And so I
think we're going to enter a very
interesting world where you know,
there's so many people creating and so
much content out there
um that even the idea that people are
paying attention to and watching it is
going to become more and more important.
Um and I think that's actually going to
make the quality of content just to kind
of elevate because there's just anybody
can create and actually it's going to be
the consumption that's going to be quite
limited which is very different than the
world we live in today. You guys are
very thoughtful and intentional about
how you treated IP holders. Can you say
a word on that?
You know, we've been in close
partnership with like a bunch of folks
across the industry and like really
trying to
like both show them kind of this like
new technology, right? That is actually
like a huge value proposition
for rights holders across the board,
right? And like we're hearing so much
excitement from the folks we're talking
with. Like they really see this as being
like, you know, a new frontier for
again, like, you know, every kid in the
world having the ability to like go and
like use
like some of this beloved IP and like
really like bring it into their lives in
a way that feels much more personal and
custom than what's been possible before.
Yeah. Um at the same time, you know, we
really want to make sure that we're
doing this like in the right way. So
we've been like really trying to take
feedback and like really
steer our road map in a way where we
know that, you know, both users are
going to have an awesome experience
getting to use this IP, but also the
rights holders are going to get, you
know, properly monetized and rewarded um
in a way that, you know, everyone wins
basically. So we're right now actively
working on trying to scope out the exact
details about like how we're going to,
you know, for example, make it so if you
want to cameo your favorite character
from some like beloved film or
something, um you can do that in a way
where uh you have access to it, but like
monetization will flow back to the
rights holder, right? So really trying
to figure out this kind of like new
economy for creators. Uh we kind of just
have to create this from scratch right
now. There's a lot of deep questions
about how to do this the right way. And
you know, as with everything with this
app, we come into it with like an open
mind and we hear feedback and we iterate
quickly. You know, we're not sure where
this is going to totally converge,
but we're working closely with people to
figure it out.
Really cool.
What's ahead?
>> [laughter]
>> Pets. Yeah. I think I mean one one
Sorry, what? Pets cameo.
Cameo [laughter] your pets.
Is that one of the most demanding
features? Break break For me it is.
Most demanding. No, we we actually
>> remind us we were just talking about
curing diseases and world models
[laughter]
and now we're to the future with That's
Uh this is something
No, it's actually it's so that's
definitely true. We've committed to
that. It's coming.
Uh we had [laughter] we I promise.
The
we actually had Bill's dog as like when
we were playing around with this. The
goodest boy. Yeah.
And actually it was very very cool um to
actually feature a pet. You can imagine
where that goes. It doesn't have to
necessarily be a pet.
Um could be anything clock or whatever
you have.
Well, yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
You have a special clock? Actually it's
really compelling.
>> [laughter]
>> Yes. I didn't think it could be so
compelling until Thomas showed me this
clock. It's like a sentient clock. It's
a Well, But it's it's like based on like
a a real clock.
>> Yeah, I I had a clock my father that was
a my father was a technology person for
a while. He his company Veritas gave him
a clock for his like whatever
anniversary. Anyway, so I have it on my
my uh
like table somewhere and uh there's this
old Simpsons episode where they talk
about a walking clock and for some
reason that's just been an earworm in my
head for the last 30 years. And so I
always say it's like a you know, they
they're telling some joke and it's like
is it a walking clock? Is it a walking
clock? And it's like walking clock and
then it's like no man, it's my dog. And
so it connected in my brain where I was
like okay, Rocket walking clock. And
then [laughter] so I tried it.
Yeah.
Uh yeah, so I
it connected in my brain and we've been
playing around with this just to see if
we can get it to work and whether
there's something special there which is
part of the fun of being on the Sora
team is you get to play with this
emergent crazy technology and like maybe
it does something
you wouldn't even expect it. So I
recorded a
2-second video of my clock and then
[laughter]
I gave it some cameo instructions and I
said you're just a walking clock. You're
walking clock. You talk like you talk
your character and then I generated my
first video and it was insane. It was
crazy.
>> [laughter]
>> It was a walking clock.
And then I had one where it was talking
to Bill
and Bill was like I didn't think it
would ever land the pet cameo feature
and then
the walking clock's like here I am, you
know, I just landed
that. [laughter]
It's coming. It's all internal memes.
Talk about emerging IP. Yeah. Who needs
Who needs Pokémon when you can have a
walking clock?
>> [laughter]
>> What's the greatest IP? One thing to add
in terms of the future, I think on the
feature film question sometime something
I think about all the time is like what
you know, what what will that actually
look like? I think my I mean, caveat
Bill's the only one who's who's good at
predicting the future here.
>> [laughter]
>> Um
but my sense is that the
you know, as we get to longer forms,
what our equivalent of a feature film
will look and feel very very different
from what a feature film is today. You
know, I don't know exactly what that
looks like, but I think on the subject
of creators and what what's coming in
the world, I think a new medium and a
new class of creators new class could
include a lot of existing creators and
and support existing sort of mediums and
stuff like that, but I think we're just
in the early innings of
of what I imagine will be the next film
industry rather than thinking about this
being a feature film. But I think
there'll be something new. There's some
anecdote. I hope this is true cuz I say
it all the time, but apparently when the
recording camera like, you know, hit the
world, the first thing people did was
record plays.
It's like the least interesting thing
you could do with a recording camera.
It's like what what's the big idea? Oh,
we people don't have to travel around
acting. We can just film them and
distribute it. And then someone was like
wait a minute.
>> [snorts]
>> We can make a film and film in all these
different areas. And I feel like we
haven't we're in like the first inning
of so many different sort of things that
people will do with this technology
especially as the constraints change
with latency and length and all that
kind of stuff. Yeah. So cool and fun
film history
uh nerd fact is
one of the original videos and we should
check this as well, but I think the
original video was made just down the
peninsula
uh to settle a bet on if a horse when it
galloped all four legs it left the
ground.
And I could see a world where you have
new that is an example of new scientific
discovery.
People didn't actually have an answer to
that. Now that you have a new simulation
format, what are we going to be able to
discover in that?
It will be crazy. And I think one one
broader point here is, you know, this
app right now feels very familiar in a
lot of ways, right? It's like a social
media network at its core.
But fundamentally like the way that like
we really view it internally, right? Is
with Cameo we've kind of introduced the
lowest bandwidth way
to give information to Sora about
yourself, right? Aspects about your
appearance, about your voice, etc.
You can imagine over time that like that
bandwidth will greatly increase, right?
So the model deeply understands your
relationships with other people. It
understands, you know, more than just
how you look on any given day.
It's, you know, seen your full like how
you've grown up. All of these details
about yourself. And will really be able
to almost function as like a digital
clone, right? It's like there's really a
world where the Sora app almost becomes
this like mini alternate reality that's
running on your phone. You have
versions of yourself that can go off and
interact with other people's digital
clones. You can do knowledge work. It's
not just for entertainment, right? And
it really evolves more into a platform
which is really aligned with kind of
where these like world simulation
capabilities are headed long term. Um I
think when that happens the kind of
emerging things we will see are crazy.
And you know,
for Open AI across the board,
it's really important that we kind of
like iteratively deploy technology in a
way where we're not just like dropping
bombshells on the world when there's
like some big research breakthrough. We
want to co-evolve society with the
technology. And so that's why we really
thought it was important to like do this
now and like do it in a way where, you
know, we've hit this again this kind of
like GPT-3.5 moment for video. Let's
make sure the world is kind of aware of
what's possible now. And also, you know,
start to get society comfortable in like
figuring out the rules of the road for
this kind of like longer term vision for
where again
there are just copies of yourself
running around in Sora in the ether like
just doing tasks and like reporting back
in the physical world because that is
where we are headed long-term. So cool.
So you're building the multiverse.
Actually kind of, yeah. Okay. Well, can
can some of me go and find my soulmate
somewhere in there? I mean, anything is
possible in the multiverse. [laughter]
It is a call for action everyone.
It is kind of crazy though cuz
and now I'm going to sound totally
totally cuckoo, but if we're in a
computed, you know,
environment,
you're building the perfect simulator.
That kind of is the way you ultimately
understand and break out of the computer
environment, right? Like are we getting
closer to the out of the matrix?
Some very deep existential questions.
Yeah. [laughter] Yeah.
What's your guys' P of we're simulated?
Like this is all Rising.
Yeah, me too.
What's your P? I'm low. I'm yeah. Oh,
man. But yeah, it's okay.
I I respect that. I'm just like, you
know what? Sometimes you got to it's got
to be real.
I feel like I'm at like
a solid 60%. I don't know. Like more
likely than not at this point.
>> I'm I'm I'm there, too.
Wow. Yeah.
Zero. Should we make a Should we make a
calzone on it?
>> [laughter]
>> What's the oracle?
I'm not that Sora 10 will answer it.
Sora 10, yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah. What do you think are the
theoretical limits
to Sora?
Yeah, it's actually a great question.
Um
I thought a little bit about this. Like
I think there's like
a question, can you eventually like
simulate like a GPU cluster, right, in
Sora or something? And I I I assume
there are some
very
well-defined limits on like the amount
of computation you can run
within
one of these systems like given the
amount of compute you're actually
running it on.
Um
I've not like thought deeply enough
about this, but I think there are some
like
there's some like existential questions
there that need to get resolved. Yeah.
Yeah. See, this is why his P is so high.
>> [laughter]
>> Fascinating. Wow. Got a few lightning
round questions for the team that we
just kind of generated on the fly here.
Um and take your time. Jump in whenever
you have an answer. Your favorite cameo
on Sora to date.
And what happened?
That is so tough.
I have a I have a hot one. Go. Go. Go.
>> [laughter]
>> Uh
okay. So the there was this TikTok trend
of
I I and I got obsessed with them. I
don't know why, but these Chinese
factory tours where they're like,
"Hello, I'm the chili This is the chili
factory." They get like one like and
it's me. Uh and it's like they're
showing their chili factory and they're
like, "It's the chili factory.
[laughter] Like this is amazing."
Uh and or like there's an industrial
uh chemical one. There's a
uh
I yeah, anyway, I've I've lost the name,
but there's an industrial
uh chem chemical factory. And uh the
first day um I had my cameo
options open just cuz I was like, I just
want to see what happens. Uh and
uh the first day late at night um I op
opened my cameos and I was starting to
get tagged in
factory tour
uh cameos that were all in Chinese and I
was like, "I'm I'm in the chili
factory." And I was so excited that I
get zero likes.
I liked [laughter] it. It was just me,
but I was like, "I'm the chili factory
guy now. I'm like doing the ribbon
cutting at the chili factory. Amazing."
Uh that's too deep of a cut though, so
Congratulations. Fun fact, I actually
have done Chinese factory tours in real
life and they are truly epic.
>> Yeah. Uh there's this one just I saw of
Mark Cuban and Jorts dancing around
[laughter] that That was pretty good.
That got me. Um
but
>> my more back to the like it just I
scrolling the latest feed and just
seeing like the wholesome content of
people like doing things with their
friends actually I think what brings me
the most joy of They're not like super
liked, but it's like people just like
getting a lot of, you know, value
obviously from just like making videos
with their friends, so
Sam has so many bangers. I like the one
of
him doing like this K-pop dance routine
about like GPUs or something.
It's very good. Actually, I would put it
on my Spotify if like we had the full
song. It was very good. It's like
generated by Sora. It's like
but like very compelling. Yeah. All
right. Well, that leads to the next one
cuz you mentioned Spotify. What does an
AI fully generated AI win first?
Oscar,
Grammy,
Emmy. I think the like logical answer is
like the a short winning an Oscar. Yeah.
I think that's probably right.
>> Yeah. What would we win it for? Like for
like a The Jorts. Yeah, the Jorts. Would
it be the Jorts? The Jorts trilogy.
>> Yeah. We need We need new content. Yeah.
Uh I do think if people stitch things
together in an interesting way, like
yeah, I think there's a you can actually
start to make some very compelling
storytelling in that and um
I don't think it's like it doesn't
really feel like AI anymore. Uh the the
content I'm seeing like that that was
actually something I noticed with Sora
as well. Just like throwing through It
wasn't even noticing it was AI.
Um it was just kind of interesting
content.
>> That's a more interesting question. What
will we know? Oh, yeah.
Maybe it's already happened.
>> Maybe it's already happened.
>> [laughter]
>> Uh
I feel like for Oscars one of the cool
things that'll be unlocked is
this long tail of epic stories in
history,
stories of heroism and struggle and all
of these things that have been locked up
because of the cost of creating.
You know, as a as a history
enthusiast, I cannot wait for AI to
unlock all of those stories. Have you
seen the Bible video app? No, I haven't.
Oh, it's really good. I'll show it to
you after.
Perfect example. Or there's this movie
The Last Duel a few years ago about this
this really terrible crime that was
committed in medieval France that was
historically relevant and you know,
basically says a lot about humanity and
it just got picked up because eventually
Hollywood picked up this important story
about humanity. But how many more are
there in human history? That's going to
be really cool. Um favorite character
from any film or TV show.
I have a really random one.
Go for it. Uh you guys seen Madagascar?
>> [laughter]
>> King Julian. Oh, it's played by Sacha
Sacha Baron Cohen. He's a lemur. He's a
lemur cat. Absolutely.
That's a banger. It's his humor meets
kid-friendly storytelling. It's just
it's perfect. Um I play a lot of video
games, so I mean that the your classic
answer is going to be like Mario or
something like that. Although I'll do
the deeper cut of we were always joking
about PaRappa the Rapper.
Yeah.
Yeah, PaRappa the Rapper. Like old old
PlayStation game, one of the original
rhythm games. It's got a great artistic
style and it's got a great IP of just
this little What What is he? A dog? He's
a dog, yeah. Yeah. That's a good pick.
When I was a kid, I played the like
Pokémon Trading Card Game competitively
for a while.
So I was like really in like the Pokémon
rabbit hole. So like I don't know. It's
my Pikachu.
>> [laughter]
>> Super non-consensual
>> A fringe deep cut.
Okay. First world model scientific
discovery.
Most specific possible. Obviously,
you're not going to
say the discovery.
I suspect it will be something related
to like classical physics. Like
Wow. a better theory of turbulence or
something.
That would be my guess.
I was guessing it was going to be
something like that. I was like, yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> Navier-Stokes equation? I don't know.
Yeah, some fluid dynamics thing that's
maybe hard to understand um now. There's
a lot of like unsolved kind of problems
there. They Sometimes they call it like
continuum mechanics where it's like in
between
um and we don't have good models of
them.
Something that lends itself to
simulation just like the amount of
iterations you can do with a simulation
unlocking something which I don't yeah,
something in that realm. The last thing
will be able to accurately simulate.
I do think there's like a set of
physical phenomenon for which
video data is like a poor choice of
representation, right? So like for
example,
is it really efficient
to learn about, you know,
like high-speed particle collisions or
something from like video footage?
Maybe.
Um
I really think video is at its best
when, you know, the phenomenon that
you're trying to learn about is just
natively represented uh
in the physical world. And so when you
when you need to do like, you know, like
quantum mechanics or
some other discipline where,
you know, it's more theoretical. We
don't have like video footage beyond You
can't see it. Yeah, things that we've
like manually rendered for like
educational purposes,
it feels
like a weaker medium for understanding
these things. So I suspect those would
come last. I guess it's the things we
don't have sensors for. Right. Right.
Yeah, maybe the last things we care to
simulate is another way of thinking
about the answer. I don't know. I mean,
people aren't doing much with smell
right now. True.
Green fields. I've been meaning to tell
you about that.
>> [laughter]
>> We're still trying to figure out how to
simulate Thomas with bad hair. Oh, yeah.
It remains an unsolved problem. Not even
Sora can do it. Thomas' hair flow, just
general. Guzzling ketchup, yes. There
was a There was a good round of people
being bald. We were all Oh, yeah.
Bald gents were good. Actually kind of
cool. That's a That's a use case that
doesn't I don't really talk about very
much, but it's like Visualization. When
you're bald Yeah, everybody wants to be
bald. No, it's just like you just see
yourself in some different context. I
think it can be quite powerful even like
therapeutic in some ways where you just
like see yourself in some context that
you either want or don't want yourself
to kind of be in and just see see
yourself. It's a real use case. Yeah.
Yeah.
Guys, thank you so much for coming from
space-time tokens to object permanence,
world models that will enable scientific
discovery, the democratization of
creation,
all the way to walking clocks. You guys
have covered it all. Thank you so much
and uh the future is being created by
you.
Thanks, Konstantin. Thanks, Sonya. Thank
>> [music]
[music]